With that if we have another look at this stencil project, we see there is a github folder which you
can ignore for now,
there is node modules folder which holds all the dependencies this project needs
and these are really just dependencies of the stencil compiler,
so basically packages the compiler uses to compile our code. The source folder then holds our code,
here we will store the files for the components we create and then we've got some config files,
most importantly package.json, this file here has a couple of scripts we can execute to for example
generate our web components and it also holds our dependencies
and here we really only have one and that is the stencil package. Now in the source folder,
we get this index.html file which we can use to test our web components
and there you see we have an import, this build folder doesn't actually exist here,
it is generated on the fly by stencil when we run a certain command which I'll show you in a second
and here, we then use our components just as we did it in our other project where I also just used my component
and we write the code for the components in the components folder and stencil automatically picks up
any components we add here, registers them and allows us to use them,
we don't even need to add an import in the index.html file manually,
stencil will do that for us in the future.
Now a component in stencil looks a bit differently than a component did when we wrote it with vanilla
Javascript. As you can tell, it consists of a couple of files actually.
Now you can ignore this
e2e.ts
and that spec.ts file, we can actually delete them,
that is used for unit testing and end-to-end testing, something I'll not cover here.
The meat of our component lives in this file, in this any component name you want, .tsx file
and this uses Typescript,
for example this decorator here is a Typescript feature,
it would not work in vanilla Javascript, at least not in the current version
and we also have a CSS file here and that simply is a little convenience feature of stencil, we
can outsource the styles for our component into a separate file where we can get nice CSS auto-completion
support and so on
instead of putting our CSS code into such a template here where we might not even get good IDE
support and then we have a more declarative way of creating our components. On first sight,
this looks totally different than our component,
for example we don't extend the HTML element, that is because stencil will do that for us automatically
and we also have no innerHTML template
but in a stencil component, we have a render function and this returns something which looks like HTML
which in the end is exactly our template, our HTML code for this web component.
So basically what we had in here, in our innerHTML part, this part, that is what we render in stencil.
And this HTML in Javascript code here which might look totally new to you,
it might also not if you know ReactJS but otherwise, it probably does look very strange to you,
this is a special feature,
JSX is the name, it looks like HTML in Javascript, in the end
this does not run in the browser but there are tools and stencil includes such a tool that in the
end compile that to normal Javascript.
It was first introduced by ReactJS which is a library you can use for building reactive web
applications with Javascript and in the end as I mentioned, it is normal Javascript,
it is compiled to Javascript or to commands that will actually render the appropriate HTML content
to the screen but that will happen behind the scenes and you as a developer can just use this HTML
in Javascript syntax and you don't need to worry about manually writing code that accesses the DOM and
writes your content into the DOM,
that will be handled behind the scenes. Stencil.js simply contains a tool that parses this code
here and converts it to Javascript that will then write it into the real DOM and it has a couple of
convenience features included,
for example it has a couple of features that will automatically rerun this render function when you
change some input to the render functions.
So in this case, we got a couple of props here which are basically properties of this component
and if any of these changes, then stencil will automatically rerun render and therefore update the
DOM automatically
and what I mean with this is it will output the code that gives us a web component that has all the
code in it to automatically watch such properties and then update the DOM
and this will probably become clearer if we actually turn this stencil component into a real web component
with npm run build. Execute this command in the terminal of this project, so you can simply open an integrated
terminal of your IDE
as I did here or use your normal system terminal and navigate into this project folder and that in the
project folder, run npm run build and this will now generate a web component based on this TSX file
and if you have multiple components, it would generate component files for all of them and thereafter,
you'll have this dist folder and in there, you'll have a bunch of files and I will show you how
to use them when you want to start using web components in your project later
but what you can simply do as you can go into that my-component folder and click on that my-component.html
.
Javascript file here and there, this in the end is the output of the stencil compiler.
Obviously this is not readable at all but this is really just a native web component
and you can prove that by searching for HTML element in there and you will see extends HTML
element and that might look familiar to you because that is of course what we did in our own component
as well.
So we get this optimized and it's good that this is small because this makes it run very fast.
We get this optimized component here which we can simply start using in our HTML files
and again, I will show you how to start using later.
For now, we can just take it as it is,
stencil will build such native web components for us and it gives us a nicer syntax for doing so
and obviously in the next modules, I will walk you through this syntax step-by-step to teach you stencil
and that will then give us a much nicer way of creating web components.